W-21004793-Add-new-features-to-APIkit-for-OData-v2-docs-CP (#228)
mulesoft/docs-apikit: modules/ROOT/pages/apikit-odatav2-extension-reference.adoc

xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/mule-apikit http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/mule-apikit/current/mule-apikit.xsd"
----

== Customizing EntitySet Names

> APIkit for OData v2 pluralizes entity type names automatically to create *EntitySet* endpoints (for example, `Person` became `Persons`). From APIkit for OData 2.3.5 and later, override this behavior by using these annotations in your RAML type definitions:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
APIkit for OData v2 pluralizes entity type names automatically to create *EntitySet* endpoints (for example, `Person` becomes `Persons`). For APIkit for OData 2.3.5 and later, override this behavior by using these annotations in your RAML type definitions:
```

Author: OK! Thanks!

* *(odata.entitySet)* 
* *(odata.entitySetEnabled)*

> With these annotations, you control the *EntitySet* name exposed in metadata and in OData API URLs and align endpoints with your domain (for example, `Person` → `People`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With these annotations, you control the *EntitySet* name exposed in metadata and in OData API URLs and align endpoints with your domain (for example, change `Person` to `People`).
```

Author: OK! Thanks!

=== Annotation Reference

Apply these annotations at the entity type level in your RAML library (for example, in `odataLibrary.raml`):

[cols="1a,2a,3a", options="header"]
|===
| Annotation | Type | Description

> | *(odata.entitySet)* | String | Custom name for the entity set. Used only if *(odata.entitySetEnabled)* is `true` and the value is non-empty.

Reviewer: Bold OK?

Author: I double checked, and it should be mono type. Thanks!

| *(odata.entitySetEnabled)* | Boolean | If `true`, uses the custom name from *(odata.entitySet)*. If `false` or omitted, default pluralization is used for backward compatibility.
|===

=== Feature Flag: Enabling Custom EntitySet Names

The *(odata.entitySet)* and *(odata.entitySetEnabled)* entity annotations affect metadata generation and OData API behavior as follows:

[cols="1a,2a,3a,4a,5a", options="header"]
|===
| Case | *(odata.entitySetEnabled)* | *(odata.entitySet)* | Effective EntitySet Name | Metadata and OData API Behavior
| 1 | `false` | Present | Default pluralization (based on entity type) | Default EntitySet
| 2 | `false` | Not present | Default pluralization (based on entity type) | Default EntitySet
| 3 | Not defined or present | Present | Default pluralization (based on entity type) | Default EntitySet
| 4 | Not defined or present | Not present | Default pluralization (based on entity type) | Default EntitySet
| 5 | `true` | Present (non-empty) | Custom name from annotation | Custom EntitySet; metadata and APIs use the custom name
| 6 | `true` | Not present or empty | Default pluralization (based on entity type) | Default EntitySet
|===

[NOTE]

> Custom names apply if **entitySetEnabled** is `true` and **entitySet** is provided with a non-empty value. If not, APIkit for OData v2 uses default pluralization.

Reviewer: Double **? 

Bold OK?

Author: As previously mentioned, it should be mono. Thanks!
